>> Woodruff: BATTLING OVER
BUDGET ISSUES TOOK CENTER STAGE
ON CAPITOL HILL TODAY, WITH
LAWMAKERS FIGHTING OVER HOW TO
AVOID A FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN AND A DEBT-LIMIT
CRISIS.
>> Ifill: PLUS, POPE FRANCIS
DECLARED THE CATHOLIC CHURCH'S
MORAL AUTHORITY COULD
FALL LIKE A HOUSE OF CARDS, IF
IT DOESN'T STOP OBSESSING ABOUT
ISSUES LIKE ABORTION AND
HOMOSEXUALITY.
>> Woodruff: AND HARI
SREENIVASAN REPORTS ON A
CALIFORNIA TOWN'S UNIQUE PLAN TO
STEM THE DAMAGE FROM THE HOUSING
DOWNTURN, BY TAKING CONTROL OF
UNDERWATER MORTGAGES.
>> THE CITY MAY INVOKE EMINENT
DOMAIN, SEIZING THE LOANS, AND
THEN WORKING WITH OWNERS TO TRY
TO REFINANCE THEIR HOMES AT
TODAY'S LOWER PRICE.
>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: OUR LEAD STORY
TONIGHT: REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS WERE LOCKED IN A
STANDOFF OVER THE PRESIDENT'S
HEALTH CARE LAW AND FEDERAL
SPENDING.
THE TEST OF WILLS PLAYED OUT,
WITH JUST ELEVEN DAYS UNTIL A
POTENTIAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
>> WE'LL DELIVER A BIG VICTORY
IN THE HOUSE TOMORROW, THEN THE
FIGHT WILL MOVE OVER TO THE
SENATE, WHERE IT BELONGS.
>> IN CASE THERE'S ANY SHRED OF
DOUBT IN THE MINDS OF OUR HOUSE
COUNTERPARTS, I WANT TO BE
ABSOLUTELY CRYSTAL CLEAR: ANY
BILL THAT DEFUNDS OBAMACARE IS
DEAD.
>> Ifill: ON CAPITOL HILL TODAY,
NEITHER SIDE READY TO BLINK.
THE PRESIDENT IS DIGGING HIS
HEELS IN TOO, VOWING TO  VETO
ANY ATTEMPT TO ELIMINATE FUNDING
FOR THE HEALTH CARE LAW.
BUT HOUSE REPUBLICANS PLAN TO
TRY TO KILL OBAMACARE TOMORROW
ANYWAY, AS PART OF A SPENDING
BILL THAT WOULD KEEP THE
GOVERNMENT RUNNING PAST OCTOBER
1.
SPEAKER BOEHNER SAID THE HOUSE
WILL PASS THE BILL, AND HIS
COUNTERPARTS ACROSS THE CAPITOL
SHOULD TOO.
>> I EXPECT MY SENATE COLLEAGUES
TO DO EVERYTHING THEY CAN TO
DEFUND THIS LAW, JUST LIKE THE
HOUSE IS GOING TO DO.
>> Ifill: WHETHER THEY WILL,
REMAINS UNCLEAR.
TEXAS REPUBLICAN SENATOR TED
CRUZ, A DRIVING FORCE BEHIND THE
EFFORT IN THE HOUSE AND THE
SENATE, SAID HE WILL NOT BACK
DOWN.
>> I WILL DO EVERYTHING
NECESSARY AND ANYTHING POSSIBLE
TO DEFD OBUNAMACARE.
>> FILIBUSTER?
>> YES.
AND ANYTHING ELSE.
ANY PROCEDURAL MEANS NECESSARY.
>> Ifill: BUT SOME REPUBLICANS
ARE RELUCTANT.
TENNESSEE REBLICPUAN BOB CORKER
DISMISSED THE ENTIRE STRATEGY
VIA TWITTER.
HE WROTE:
DEMOCRATS WERE HAPPY TO
HIGHLIGHT REPUBLICAN
DISAGREEMENT.
MAJORITY LEADER HARRY REID:
>> THERE'S REALLY SOME WRANGLING
AMONG THE RANKS.
NOT ONLY AMONG THE REPUBLICANS
IN THE HOUSE, BUT NOW WE HAVE
BATTLES GOING AMONG REPUBLICANS
IN THE HOUSE AND REPUBLICANS IN
THE SENATE.
SO LET'S JUST WAIT AND SEE IF
THEY HAVE A STOMACH FOR CLOSING
THE GOVERNMENT.
>> Ifill: AFTER TOMORROW'S VOTE,
HOUSE REPUBLICANS ARE PREPARING
TO MOVE RIGHT ON TO THE NEXT
FISCAL FIGHT-- THIS TIME OVER
RAISING THE NATIONAL DEBT LIMIT.
THIS TIME, THEY ARE WORKING TO
LINK ITS PASSAGE TO IMPLEMENTING
A ONE-YEAR DELAY IN THE HEALTH
CARE LAW.
BUT WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY
JAY CARNEY SUGGESTED ANY SUCH
PROPOSAL IS NOT WORTH
DISCUSSING.
>> IT'S UNCONSCIONABLE TO
IMAGINE THAT THERE ARE THOSE IN
THE CONGRESS-- AND NOW
APPARENTLY BECAUSE HE COULDN'T
PERSUADE THEM OTHERWISE, THE
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE HAS JOINED
THEM-- WHO BELIEVE THAT IT IS
THE RIGHT THING TO DO TO
THREATEN ANOTHER RECESSION,
THREATEN ECONOMIC CALAMITY IN
THIS COUNTRY AND THE GLOBE OVER
THEIR DESIRE TO DEFUND OR DELAY
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
>> Ifill: THE TREASURY NOW
ESTIMATES THE GOVERNMENT WILL
REACH ITS BORROWING LIMIT, WHICH
WOULD MEAN DEFAULTING ON ITS
DEBTS, SOMETIME BETWEEN LATE
OCTOBER AND EARLY NOVEMBER.
>> Woodruff: AND, IN THE OTHER
NEWS OF THIS DAY:
A WARNING FROM POPE FRANCIS THAT
THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH'S
MORAL AUTHORITY IS LIKELY TO
FALLIKE  LA HOUSE OF CARDS,
UNLESS IT BECOMES MORE
WELCOMING.
HE TOLD AN ITALIAN JESUIT
MAGAZINE THAT, "THE CHURCH
SOMETIMES HAS LOCKED ITSELF UP
IN SMALL THINGS, IN SMALL-MINDED
RULES."
THE PONTIFF SAID DOCTRINES
AGAINST ABORTION, GAYS AND
CONTRACEPTION MUST BE BALANCED
AGAINST THE NEED TO BE MORE
MERCIFUL.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THIS, LATER
IN THE PROGRAM.
THE U.S. HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES HAS
DEBATED A BILL TO SLASH FOOD
STAMPS BY SOME $40 BILLION OVER
THE NEXT DECADE.
REPUBLICANS ARGUED TODAY THE
MEASURE PROVIDES MUCH-NEEDED
REFORMS TO A PROGRAM THAT'S
EXPANDED TO ONE IN SEVEN
AMERICANS.
DEMOCRATS COUNTERED WITH
PICTURES OF HUNGRY AMERICANS,
AND ARGUED THE CUTS WOULD DO
GREAT HARM, AS THE TWO SIDES
BATTLED ON THE HOUSE FLOOR.
>> THESE $40 BILLION IN CUTS GO
AGAINST DECADES OF BIPARTISAN
SUPPORT FOR THE FIGHT AGAINST
HUNGER IN THE UNITED STATES.
THEY WILL HURT OUR ECONOMY AND
THEY ARE, IN A WORD, IMMORAL.
IF THIS CRUEL LEGISLATION WERE
TO BECOME LAW, AT LEAST FOUR
MILLION OF THE NATION'S POOREST
CITIZENS WOULD LOSE ACCESS TO
THE FOOD THAT THEY NEED.
>> REPUBLICANS AREN'T TRYING TO
TAKE FOOD OUT OF BABIES' MOUTHS
OR MAKE OUR SENIORS GO HUNGRY.
DON'T BELIEVE THE SCARE TACTICS
FROM MY COLLEAGUES WHO OPPOSE
THE BILL.
THIS IS A COMMON SENSE REFORM
THAT CUTS WASTE, FRAUD, AND
ABUSE LEAVING MORE MONEY FOR THE
AMERICANS WHO TRULY NEED HELP IN
TIME OF NEED.
>> Woodruff: THE DEMOCRATIC-RUN
SENATE OPPOSES THE HOUSE BILL,
AND THE WHITE HOUSE HAS
THREATENED A VETO, IF THE
MEASURE EVER MAKES IT TO THE
PRESIDENT.
A TEXAS APPEALS COURT TODAY
TOSSED OUT THE MONEY-LAUNDERING
CONVICTION OF FORMER HOUSE
MAJORITY LEADER TOM DELAY.
IN 2010, HE WAS FOUND GUILTY OF
ILLEGALLY CHANNELING $190,000 IN
CORPORATE DONATIONS TO
REPUBLICANS RUNNING FOR THE
STATE LEGISLATURE.
THE APPEALS COURT RULED THE
STATE NEVER PROVED THE MONEY WAS
ILLEGALLY OBTAINED.
PROSECUTORS PLAN TO APPEAL.
J.P.-MORGAN CHASE WILL PAY ONE
OF THE LARGEST FINES EVER, FOR
ONE OF THE LARGEST TRADING
LOSSES EVER.
THE FINES TOTAL $920 MILLION.
U.S. AND BRITISH FINANCIAL
REGULATORS SAID THE BANK IS ALSO
ADMITTING THAT WEAK OVERSIGHT
ALLOWED LONDON TRADERS TO LOSE
$6 BILLION.
MORE ON THIS, IN A MOMENT.
THE DEATH TOLL IN MEXICO'S
DISASTROUS FLOODING HIT 97
TAY, ODAMID MAJOR NEW
DESTRUCTION.
A MASSIVE MUDSLIDE BURIED MUCH
OF A VILLAGE, LOCATED DEEP IN
THE COUNTRY'S SOUTHERN
MOUNTAINS.
OFFICIALS SAID
58 PEOPLE ARE MISSING THERE.
ONE SURVIVOR TOLD A HARROWING
STORY.
>> ( translated ): I WAS WALKING
DOWN THE STREET, NEAR A STORE,
WHEN I HEARD A LOUD NOISE AND I
JUST STOOD THERE.
I SAW HOW THE DIRT AND DUST
BEGAN TO BILLOW UP.
IT WAS LIKE BLACK SMOKE AND IT
TURNED LIKE A WINDMILL. WHEN I
SAW THAT IT WAS COMING DOWN TO
THE FIELD, I LEFT RUNNING.
I DIDN'T SEE ANYMORE.
>> Woodruff: THE FLOODING AND
MUDSLIDES WERE TRIGGERED BY A
PAIR OF TROPICAL STORMS THAT
STRUCK LAST WEEKEND.
ONE DEVASTATED ACAPULCO, THEN
GREW INTO HURRICANE "MANUEL" AND
BATTERED THE NORTHWEST STATE OF
SINALOA TODAY.
NEW FIGHTING HAS ERUPTED IN
SYRIA BETWEEN ISLAMIST GUNMEN
AND WESTERN-BACKED REBELS.
ACTIVISTS CONFIRMED TODAY THAT
AN AL-QAEDA OFFSHOOT SEIZED A
NORTHERN TOWN NEAR THE TURKISH
BORDER, DRIVING OUT FIGHTERS
WITH THE FREE SYRIAN ARMY.
IT WAS THE LATEST SIGN OF
GROWING INFIGHTING IN REBEL
RANKS.
U.S. SENATOR JOHN McCAIN FIRED
BACK TODAY AT RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN.
LAST WEEK, IN "THE NEW YORK
TIMES", PUTIN STRONGLY
CRITICIZED THE U.S. AND ITS
POLICY ON SYRIA.
TODAY, ON A RUSSIAN NEWS
WEBSITE, McCAIN WROTE THAT PUTIN
RULES, QUOTE, "...BY CORRUPTION,
REPRESSION AND VIOLENCE.
HE RULES FOR HIMSELF...."
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN ALSO
ACCUSED PUTIN OF SIDING WITH A
TYRANT IN SYRIA.
IN EGYPT, SECURITY FORCES
STORMED AN ISLAMIST STRONGHOLD
NEAR THE GREAT PYRAMIDS, ON THE
OUTSKIRTS OF CAIRO.
THEY WENT DOOR TO DOOR, HUNTING
DOWN ARMED SUPPORTERS OF OUSTED
PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI.
THE SOLDIERS WERE BACKED BY
ARMORED VEHICLES AND HELICOPTERS
AS GUNMEN FIRED DOWN ON THEM
FROM THE ROOFTOPS.
THE EGYPTIAN SECURITY CHIEF
VOWED TODAY TO KEEP UP THE
PRESSURE.
>> ( translated ): THE 55 PEOPLE
WHO WERE ARRESTED ARE THOSE WHO
BURNED THE CHURCHES, PARADED
WITH THE BODIES OF THE
POLICEMEN, SCARED THE PEOPLE AND
FORMED THE CRIMINAL HIDEOUTS IN
KERDASA.
THIS IS JUST THE BEGINNING AND
WE WILL CONTINUE OUR OPERATION.
>> Woodruff: ISLAMISTS SEIZED
THE TOWN AFTER SECURITY FORCES
CRACKED DOWN ON PRO-MORSI
PROTESTERS IN CAIRO, KILLING
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE.
THE WASHINGTON, D.C. NAVY YARD
REOPENED TODAY FOR THE FIRST
TIME SINCE A GUNMAN KILLED 12
PEOPLE THERE ON MONDAY.
THE 16-BLOCK WALLED COMPLEX HAD
BEEN CLOSED TO ALL BUT ESSENTIAL
PERSONNEL AS THE F.B.I.
INVESTIGATED.
AS THOUSANDS OF EMPLOYEES
STREAMED BACK TO WORK,
VICE ADMIRAL WILLIAM FRENCH
SAID THERE'S COUNSELING FOR
ANYONE WHO WANTS IT.
>> TO THE PEOPLE THAT ARE IN THE
MILITARY, AND BUY THINGS SO
WE'RE INTERESTED IN OPENING
PEOPLE UP AND MAKING SURE WE CAN
GET TO THEM AND GET THEM THE
LP THEHEY NEED
>> Woodruff: THE NAVY YA'SRD
BUILDING 197, WHERE THE
SHOOTINGS OCCURRED, REMAINS
CLOSED.
WALL STREET MOSTLY TOOK A
BREATHER TODAY AFTER WEDNESDAY'S
RALLY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 40 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,636.
THE NASDAQ ROSE FIVE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,789.
THE MAN WHO SPENT MORE THAN 50
YEARS AT THE HELM OF
VIDEO-GAME PIONEER NINTENDO HAS
DIED.
HIROSHI YAMAUCHI RAN THE
JAPANESE COMPANY FROM 1949 TO
2002.
DURING THAT TIME, IT GREW FROM A
PLAYING-CARD MAKER TO ONE OF THE
MOST POPULAR GAMING COMPANIES IN
THE WORLD.
YAMAUCHI DIED TODAY OF PNEUMONIA
AT A HOSPITAL IN CENTRAL JAPAN.
HE WAS 85 YEARS OLD.
>> Woodruff: STILL EAD AHON THE
"NEWSHOUR":
GOOD-WILL GESTURES TO AND FROM
IRAN; OVER A BILLION DOLLARS IN
PENALTIES AND REFUNDS LEVIED ON
J.P. MORGAN; A UNIQUE APPROACH
TO HELP TROUBLED HOMEOWNERS; THE
POPE FAULTS THE CATHOLIC CHURCH
FOR BEING OBSESSED WITH ABORTION
AND HOMOSEXUALITY AND WHAT WILL
HEALTHCARE REFORM MEAN FOR THE
PREMIUMS YOU PAY.
>> Ifill: NOW TO IRAN AND WHAT
LOOKS LIKE A CHARM OFFENSIVE NOT
SEEN IN MORE THAN THREE DECADES.
EVER SINCE HASAN ROUHANI WAS
ELECTED PRESIDENT OF IRAN IN
JUNE, HE'S BEEN SENDING SIGNALS
THAT HE IS MORE OPEN, MORE
MODERATE THAN HIS PREDECESSORS.
PERHAPS HIS MOST OVERT OLIVE
BRANCH WAS DELIVERED LAST NIGHT
DURING AN INTERVIEW WITH NBC
NEWS, IN WHICH HE SIGNALED A
POSSIBLE DIPLOMATIC OPENING ON
HIS COUNTRY'S DISPUTED NUCLEAR
PROGRAM.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE NEVER
PURSUED OR SOUGHT A NUCLEAR
BOMB, AND WE ARE NOT GOING TO DO
SO.
IN ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM, THIS
GOVERNMENT ENTERS WITH FULL
POWER AND HAS COMPLETE
AUTHORITY.
WE HAVE SUFFICIENT POLITICAL
LATITUDE TO SOLVE THIS PROBLEM.
>> Ifill: ROUHANI ALSO SAID HE'D
HAD A POSITIVE AND CONSTRUCTIVE
EXCHANGE OF LETTERS WITH
PRESIDENT OBAMA ON THE ISSUE,
WHICH THE WHITE HOUSE CONFIRMED.
THE IRANIAN LEADER HAS ALREADY
TRANSFERRED RESPONSIBILITY FOR
NUCLEAR NEGOTIATIONS FROM IRAN'S
CONSERVATIVE MILITARY TO THE
FOREIGN MINISTRY.
AND, ON MONDAY, THE COUNTRY'S
NEW ATOMIC ENERGY HEAD PLEDGED
INCREASED COOPERATION WITH U.N.
INSPECTORS.
DURING AN INTERVIEW ON TELEMUNDO
THIS WEEK, PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID
HE WELCOMES THE APPARENT
DIPLOMATIC THAW.
>> THERE ARE INDICATIONS THAT
ROUHANI, THE NEW PRESIDENT, IS
SOMEBODY WHO IS LOOKING TO OPEN
DIALOGUE WITH THE WEST AND WITH
THE UNITED STATES, IN A WAY THAT
WE HAVEN'T SEEN IN THE PAST.
AND SO WE SHOULD TEST IT.
>> Ifill: OTHER SIGNS OF
DEFROSTING:
IRANIAN AUTHORITIES UNEXPECTEDLY
RELEASED 11 PROMINENT POLITICAL
PRISONERS YESTERDAY, INCLUDING
NASRIN SOTOUDEH, A PROMINENT
HUMAN RIGHTS LAWYER.
AND EARLIER THIS MONTH, IN A
TWEET, ROUHANI WISHED THE
WORLD'S JEWS A HAPPY ROSH
HASHANAH.
ROUHANI'S CHANGE IN TONE, AT
LEAST, STANDS IN STARK CONTRAST
TO THE HEATED RHETORIC OF
MAHMOUD AHMADINIEJAD, THE
PREVIOUS PRESIDENT, WHO
ROUTINELY ATTACKED THE WEST AND
DENIED THE HOLOCAUST.
BUT ISRAELI GOVERNMENT LEADERS
REMAIN DEEPLY SKEPTICAL ABOUT
ROUHANI'S NUCLEAR PLANS.
>> Ifill: ALTHOUGH ROUHANI WILL
ATTEND THE U.N. GENERAL ASSEMBLY
NEXT WEEK, THERE ARE NO
ANNOUNCED PLANS FOR HIM TO MEET
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA.
SO, WHAT DO PRESIDENT ROUHANI'S
OVERTURES TO THE UNITED STATES
MEAN?
AND HOW MUCH CHANGE IS ACTUALLY
HAPPE I
FOR THOSE ANSWERS, I'M JOINED BY
HALEH ESFANDIARI, DIRECTOR OF
THE MIDDLE EAST PROGRAM AT THE
WILSON CENTER.
AND KARIM SADJADPOUR, A SENIOR
ASSOCIATE AT THE CARNEGIE
ENDOWMENT'S MIDDLE EAST PROGRAM.
WHAT IS ROUHANI
UP TO, KARIM SADJADPOUR.
>> AS YOU SAID, QUEEN, THIS IS
THE MOST SIGNIFICANT EVENT THEY
HAVE LAUNCHED SINCE 1979 AND IT
HAS BEEN SIGNIFICANT.
I THINK THE BIG QUESTION IS
WHETHER THIS IS MERELY A
TACTICAL COMPROMISE IN ORDER TO
STAVE OFF ECONOMIC PRESSURE AND
REDUCE SANCTIONS 0 IS THIS A
STRATEGIC SHIFT BY IRAN TO ALTER
ITS RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
OUTSIDE WORLD, IN PARTICULAR
WITH THE UNITED STATES, AND I
THINK ONLY TIME WILL TELL.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO TEST THAT
AS PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID.
>> WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THAT,
HALEH ESFANDIARI.
>> I THINK IT'S STRATEGIC.
I THINK THAT THE ECONOMIC
SHARDSHIP THAT THE PEOPLE OF
IRAN ARE FEELING AND HAVE BEEN
SENSING FOR THE LAST EIGHT YEARS
FINALLY RES NATURED WITH THE
SUPREME LEADER.
>> BECAUSE OF THE SANKIONS.
>> BECAUSE OF THE SANKIONS, OF
COURSE, AND I THINK THAT'S WHY
HE GAVE AT LEAST A LOT OF LEEWAY
TO PRESIDENT ROUHANI TO SEE IF
HE CAN DO SOMETHING THAT -- YOU
KNOW, HE CAN SENSE THAT HE HAS
QUITE A LOT OF AUTHORITY TO BE
ABLE TO AT LEAST START A SET OF
NEGOTIATIONS.
>> Ifill: WHEN PRESIDENT ROUHANI
WON AND WAS INSTALLED IN OFFICE
THERE WAS MUCH DISCUSSION ABOUT
HOW HE WAS A MODERATE OR
CENTRIST.
WHAT DUD THAT MEAN IN IRAN.
>> WITH THE BAR OF PUBLIC
DIPLOMACY WAS SET VERY LOW BY
THE PREVIOUS PRESIDENT SO AS
LONG AS ROUHANI COMES IN AND
DOESN'T DENY THE HOLOCAUST AND
CALL FOR ISRAEL TO BE WIPED OFF
THE MAP HE IS SEEN AS A
MODERATE.
BUT HISTORICALLY HE HAS BEEN A
CONSTANT REGIME INSIDE EVER.
BUT HIS FOREIGN POLICY AND
NATIONAL SECURITY FOCUS, IN THAT
RESPECT HE HAS SHOWN HIMSELF AS
SOMEONE PUTTING IRAN'S NATIONAL
INTERESTS AHEAD OF REVOLUTION OR
IDEOLOGICAL INTERESTS AND FOR
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION WHICH
IS LOOKING A THE MIDDLE EAST AND
EVERY COUNTRY SEEMS TO BE
UNRAVELING, SYRIA, EGYPT,
BAHRAIN, A LOT OF NEGATIVE
EXAMPLES THERE, AND I THINK THAT
IRAN, IRONICALLY, IS PERHAPS ONE
OF THE FEW SOURCES OF HOPE FOR
OBAMA TO LEAVE A POSITIVE
DIPLOMATIC REGULARLY.
>> Ifill: SO SO CURIOUS ABOUT
ONE PART OF ANN CURRY'S
INTERVIEW AT NBC ABOUT WHETHER
HE DENIED THE HOLOCAUST.
HIS ANSWER WAS I'M A POLITICIAN
NOT A HISTORYION.
THAT SEEM LIKE A MISSED
OPPORTUNITY.
>> YES, I KNOW.
I THINK HE FELT HE COULD NOT
COME OUT STRAIGHT AND SAY, NO, I
THINK MY PREDECESSOR MADE THIS
HORRENDOUS MISTAKE BY SAYING
THAT.
SO HE GOT AWAY WITH THIS ANSWER
BECAUSE HE THOUGHT THAT HIS
FOREIGN MINISTER WHO IS EQUALLY
A SAVVY POLITICIAN HAD ALREADY
TAKEN CARE OF THE HOLOCAUST
ISSUE WHEN HE LEFT ON HIS
FACEBOOK OR IN HIS TWITTER IN
ANSWER TO A QUESTION THAT
HAPPENED TO BE FROM -- DAUGHTER
THAT THE PEOPLE OF IRAN NEVER
DENIED THE HOLOCAUST AND THE
PERSON WHO -- THAT PERSON IS NO
LONGER PRESIDENT.
SO I THINK ROUHANI THAT THAT
THAT TOOK CARE OF THE HOLOCAUST
SO HE TRIED TO WIGGLE HIS WAY
AROUND SPHWHRIEFL HE IS A
POLITICIAN.
>> HE IS A POLITICIAN, COMPARED
TO HIS PREDECESSOR AND THE
OTHERS.
>> KARIM, WHAT DO YOU SAY TO
PEOPLE WHO WONDER IF ALL OF THIS
OLIVE-BRANCH WAVING ISN'T A PLOY
TO GET SANKIONS LIFTED?
>> ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE, GWEN,
BUT WE WON'T KNOW UNTIL WE TEST
IT.
I DON'T DOUBT ROUHANI'S DESIRE
TO PURSUE DE TAUNT WITH THE
UNITED STATES.
WHAT IS IN QUESTION IS WHETHER
HE HAS THE AUTHORITY TO CARRY
OUT THAT DA TAUNT WITH THE
UNITED STATES.
AND WE REALLY DON'T KNOW.
I HAVE TO SAY I'M SOMEONE WHO
DIDN'T ALLOW FOR ROUHANI TO BE
ELECTED IN THE FIRST PLACE.
AND THE SUPREME RIGHT HAS LOOKED
AT RESISTANCE TOWARDS AMERICA AS
ONE OF THE STRATEGIC PILLARS,
IDEALOGICAL PILLARS FOR THREE
DECADES AND I'M CONFIDENT THAT
HE IS PREPARED TO ABANDON THOSE
PILLARS?
I DON'T THINK SO.
BUT I THINK WE WON'T KNOW UNTIL
WE TRY TO TEST IT.
>> Ifill: AGAINST THAT BACKDROP,
IN 2007, HALEH ESFANDIARI, YOU
WERE RELEASED FROM BEING HELD IN
IRAN.
AND YOU WATCHED THIS PRISONER
RELEASED YESTERDAY WITH SPECIAL
INTEREST.
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS IT?
>> I THINK IT'S VERY SIGNIFICANT
AND I FELT VERY EMOTIONAL WHEN I
SAW THE REUNION OF THE YOUNG
WOMAN THAT WAS FREED.
BUT THERE ARE A WHOLE LIST OF
PEOPLE THAT WERE RELEASED, BY
THE FOREIGN MINISTER AND I THINK
IT WAS VERY SIGNIFICANT BECAUSE
IT HAPPENED ALSO ON THE EVE OF
THE TRIP OF PRESIDENT ROUHANI,
WHO I'M SURE WOULD BE ASKED
ABOUT THE OTHER PRESENTERS,
POLITICAL PRIRCHES, INCLUDING --
SO AT LEAST WE HAVE SOMETHING TO
SHOW.
>> Ifill: BUT THERE ARE DOZENS
OF OTHERS?
>> THERE ARE NUMBERS, THEY SAY,
YOU KNOW, AROUND 800 POLITICAL
PRISONERS AND DIFFERENT DEGREES
BUT MAYBE THAT IS THE FIRST
STEP.
BUT JUST TO GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE
THAT NOTHING IS AS SIMPLE AS ONE
SEES IN IRAN.
ALREADY TODAY, IF YOU SEE THE
PRESS COMMENTS THAT SAY, WELL,
THESE PEOPLE HAD SERVED THEIR
TERMS AND HAD NOTHING TO DO,
WHICH IS RIDICULOUS.
EVERYBODY KNEW THE SENTENCE.
BUT THEY WANT TO TRY AND COVER
IT UP.
>> Ifill: THIS MUTUAL OUTRAGE
GOING ON BETWEEN THE U.S. AND
IRAN, DOES IT HELP THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES TO SQUARE
THE CIRCLE ON SYRIA AT ALL?
>> POSSIBLY.
AT THE MOMENT, THE U.S. AND IRAN
ARE BASICALLY EMBROILED IN A
ZERO SUM GAME IN SYRIA, BASHAR
AL-ASSAD'S BIGGEST BACKER IS
IRAN AND OBVIOUSLY THE U.S.
WANTS US TO GO.
THE IRONY IS, THEY'RE LOCKED IN
THE GAME BUT WHEN THERE'S A
FAULT THERE'S GOING TO BE AN
OVERLAPPING INTEREST BETWEEN
WASHINGTON, IRAN AND SYRIA WHICH
IS MUTUAL CONCERNS ABOUT RADICAL
ISLAMISTS WHO HATE SHI'ITES AS
MUCH AS THE UNITED STATES.
>> WHAT DO YOU THINK WILL HAPPEN
AT THE U.N. GENERAL ASSEMBLY, IS
THIS ALL A BUILD UP TO THAT
MOMENT?
>> I BELIEVE SO.
BUT MY SENSE IS THAT HE IS GOING
TO GIVE A SPEECH WHICH IS VERY
MODERATE IN TERMS AND SHOWING
THAT HE IS A MAN OF CMPROOMISE
AND A CON SILLTARY TURN BUT HE
WILL ALSO INSIST ON THE RIGHT OF
IRAN.
HE IS NOT GOING TO COMPROMISE
THAT, AND HE WILL EXPLAIN WHAT
IRAN THINKS IS ITS RIGHTS WHEN
IT COMES TO NUCLEAR ISSUES AND
THEN WHAT I THINK IS INTERESTING
TO WATCH IS HISTONE ON ISSUES
THAT HAVE BEEN ALWAYS IMPORTANT
FOR THE PALESTINIAN ISSUES, FOR
EXAMPLE, HOW IS HE GOING TO
FORMULATE THAT, AND THAT IS
SOMETHING TO WATCH.
>> Ifill: WE WILL BE WATCHING
ALL OF THAT.
HALEH ESFANDIARI, THE WOODROW
WILSON CENTER.
AND KARIM SADJADPOUR, CARNEGIE
ENDOWMENT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AND WE RETURN TO
J.P. MORGAN-- THE HUGE
INVESTMENT BANK HIT WITH TWO
SETS OF PENALTIES TODAY.
FIRST, S.E.C. OFFICIALS
CRITICIZED THE BANK'S TOP
LEADERS FOR HOW THEY HANDLED
TRADING LOSS LSEAST YEAR THAT
EVENTUALLY TOPPED $6 BILLION.
THE SEC SAID:
NO TOP EXECUTIVES WERE CHARGED.
FOR MORE ON THIS AND ANOTHER
FEDERAL PENALTY, WE TURN TO DAWN
KOPECKI WITH BLOOMBERG NEWS.
SHE JOINS US FROM
NEW YORK.
WELCOME TO "THE NEWS HOUR."
REMIND US WHAT JPMorgan IS
CHARGED WITH AND THEN WHAT IS IT
ADMITTING THAT IT DID WRONG?
>> WELL, THE BANK HAS BEEN
CHARGED WITH BASICALLY HAVING
SUCH BAD AND LAX INTERNAL
CONTROLS THAT IT LED EXECUTIVES
TO GIVE SHAREHOLDERS, REGULATORS
AND THEIR OWN BOARD OF DIRECTORS
REALLY BAD INFORMATION,
INACCURATE INFORMATION.
THEY DIDN'T CORRECT THE
INFORMATION IN A TIMELY WAY.
AND BASICALLY MISS LEAD, YOU
KNOW, VERY IMPORTANT, YOU KNOW,
REGULATORS AND SHARE SHOULDERS
THAT ARE INVESTING IN THEIR
COMPANY.
>> Woodruff: AND THE BANK IN, I
GATHER, WHAT IS TAKEN AS
UNUSUALLY IN THESE KINDS OF
ARRANGEMENTS, JPMorgan IS
ADMITTING THAT IT BROKE THE LAW?
>> IT'S SOMETHING NEW THAT THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION IS TRYING TO FORCE
COMPANIES TO DO.
BECAUSE INVESTORS ARE GETTING
TIRED OF BANKS BEING ABLE TO PAY
A LARGE FINE AND THEN NOT
ADMITTING ANY WRONGDOING.
SO WHAT THEY'RE DOING SO GETTING
THEM TO ADMIT THAT THEY AT LEAST
VIOLATED SECURITIES LAWS BUT IT
DIDN'T SAY SPECIFICALLY WHAT
THEY VIOLATED, SO THIS IS NEW,
IT'S NEW UNDER MARY JO WHITE,
THE NEW CHAIRMAN OF THE
COMMISSION, HAD TO RECUSE
HERSELF FROM THIS CASE BECAUSE
SHE USED TO REPRESENT JPMorgan
IN PRIVATE PRACTICE BUT THEY
STILL CAME DOWN VERY HARD ON THE
COMPANY TODAY.
>> Woodruff: HOW DOES THIS
COMPARE, DAWN, WITH OTHER
PENALTIES LEVEED AGAINST OTHER
BANKS IN THE LAST FEW YEARS?
>> IT'S HUGE.
IT'S TREMENDOUS.
IT'S DEFINITELY IN THE TOP 10,
PERHAPS THE TOP FIVE, FOR A
SINGLE BANK TO ABSORB, AND IT'S
NOT DONE.
IT WASN'T JUST THE FCC TODAY, IT
WAS THE FINANCIAL REGULATOR AND
THE UNITED KINGDOM.
IT WAS THE OFFICE OF COMP
CONTROLLER THE CURRENCY AND THE
FEDERAL RESERVE.
THEIR GOT HIT BY FOUR DIFFERENT
REGULATORS TODAY BUT THERE ARE
MANY OTHER PEOPLE, MANY OTHER
AGENCIES STILL INVESTIGATING
THIS, SO THIS 900 BILLION TODAY
IS NOT THE END OF IT.
BY THE TIME IT'S OVER, YOU MAY
SEE THIS -- YOU WILL PROBABLY
SEE THIS GO WELL OVER A BILLION
DOLLARS.
THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING
COMMISSION IS CONDITIONING
WHETHER OR NOT THEY MANIPULATED
VARIOUS TRADING INDEXES AND
THAT'S ANOTHER SIGN THAT WILL BE
PROBABLY COMING DOWN THE PIKE IN
MAYBE A FEW MONTHS OR SO.
>> Woodruff: AND I GATHER
THERE'S A CRIMINAL PROBE BY U.S.
PROSECUTORS?
>> YEP.
THEY'RE LOOKING AT THE TRADERS
INVOLVED.
AND RIGHT NOW, THEY HAVE FILED
CHARGES AND INDICTMENTS AGAINST
TWO OF THE LOW-LEVEL TRADERS.
IRONICALLY, THEY HAVEN'T CHARGED
THE LONDON WAIL, BRUNO ETSEL
BECAUSE HE IS COOPERATING WITH
THEM.
BUT IN THESE CASES THEY START
LOW AND TRY TO WORK THEIR WAY UP
THE FOOD CHAIN.
NO ONE NOES HOW HIGH IT WILL GO.
IT MAY STOP WITH THESE THREE
TRADERS BUT THE GOAL IS TO SEE
IF THEY CAN IMPLICATE EXECUTIVES
HIGHER UP THE FOOD CHAIN AT
JPMorgan AND THAT COULD BE A
BIG HEADACHE.
>> Woodruff: IS IT CLEAR WHY THE
GOVERNMENT -- YOU MENTIONED
THREE REGULATORY AGENCIES IN THE
U.S. AND A BRITISH AGENCY, WHY
THEY WENT AHEAD AND DID A JOINT
FINDING TODAY AND YET THERE ARE
STILL THESE OTHER INVESTIGATIONS
UNDER WAY?
>> WELL, THE SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION K. FINANCIAL
CONDUCT AUTHORITY, I'M TOLD THEY
OFTEN ACT IN UNISON AND THE FED
AS WELL.
SO THE COMPANY WAS REALLY TRYING
TO GET AS MANY FINES CHARGED OFF
AGAINST THE THIRD QUARTER
EARNINGS WHICH CLOSED ON
SEPTEMBER 3RD, SO THAT'S COMING
UP IN A WEEK OR TWO.
SO THEY WERE REALLY RUSHING AND
PROBABLY PAID MORE THAN THEY
WOULD HAVE, HAD THEY FOUGHT IT
LONGER, JUST TO TRY TO GET IT
OFF THEIR BOOKS THIS QUARTER.
>> NOW, SEPARATELY WE KNOW TODAY
IT WAS ANNOUNCED THAT JPMorgan
IS BEING ASKED TO PAY HUNDREDS
OF MILLIONS IN REFUNDS TO
CUSTOMERS.
>> YEP.
Woodruff: TELL US ABOUT THAT.
>> THEY WERE CHARGED BY THE
OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE
CURRENCY WHO WAS JOINED BY THE
CONSUMER FEDERAL PROTECTION
BUREAU, WHO FINED THEM
$80 MILLION TOGETHER AND THEN
FORCED HIM TO REFUND ABOUT
$300 MILLION IN CHARGES TO
CONSUMERS THAT BOUGHT IDENTITY
THEFT PROTECTION.
IT WAS BECAUSE THE PROTECTION
WASN'T REALLY THERE.
IT WAS KIND OF A SCAM, A LITTLE
BIT OF A DUPE OF CONSUMERS AND
THEY GOT SLAPPED FOR THAT AS
WELL TODAY.
SO TODAY COST JPMorgan OVER
$1.3 BILLION.
>> Woodruff: ALL TOGETHER WHEN
YOU ADD IT ALL UP.
WHAT AFFECT DOES THIS HAVE ON
JAMIE DIAMOND WHO HAS BEEN
HERALDED AS ONE OF THE WONDER
KIDS OF BANK LEADERSHIP?
>> THIS PUTS A LOT OF PRESSURE
ON JAMIE DIAMOND.
HE WAS CHALLENGED VERY HARD LAST
RING TO KEEP HIS CHAIRMANSHIP.
HE IS CHAIRMAN AND C.E.O. AND
THERE WAS A BIG PUSH TO GET HIM
TO STEP DOWN AS CHAIRMAN.
IRCAN'T IMAGINE THAT INVESTOR
GROUPS WON'T DO THAT AGAIN WITH
THE NEXT PROXY SEASON.
THAT COMES ABOUT IN APRIL OR MAY
OF NEXT YEAR SO THIS WILL
PROBABLY PUT MORE PRESSURE ON
HIM.
I MOW INVESTOR GROUPS ARE NOT
HAPPY WITH HIM STILL, AND SO
THIS IS REALLY GOING TO MAKE IT
DIFFICULT FOR HIM TO KEEP HIS
CHAIRMANSHIP.
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT HIS C.E.O.
POSITION.
SOME PEOPLE HAVE CALLED FOR
RESIGNATIONS BUT IT'S KIND OF
EARLY FOR THAT.
>> Woodruff: DAWN KOPECKI,
WATCHING IT FOR US TONIGHT.
THANK YOU, WITH BLOOMBERG NEWS.
THANKS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NEXT, A SECOND STORY
ABOUT GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
PUSHING BACK AGAINST BANKS AND
OTHER LENDERS, THIS ONE FOCUSED
ON THE AFTERMATH OF THE MORTGAGE
MELTDOWN.
IN NORTHERN CALIFORNIA, A TOWN
IS ON THE VERGE OF TAKING
UNPRECEDENTED ACTION TO HELP
UNDERWATER HOMEOWNERS.
WILL OTHER CITIES FOLLOW SUIT?
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: JAZZ MUSICIAN
MORRIS LEGRANDE SPENDS A LOT OF
TIME JAMMING IN THE SMALL
RECORDING STUDIO IN THE BACK OF
HIS RICHMOND, CALIFORNIA HOME.
HE AND HIS WIFE LUAJUANA, BOTH
57, WERE FIRST-TIME HOMEOWNERS
WHEN THEY BOUGHT THEIR PLACE IN
2004 FOR $310,000.
SEVERAL YEARS LATER, WHEN THE
PROPERTY WAS APPRAISED AT NEARLY
HALF A MILLION DOLLARS, THEY
REFINANCED AND USED THE MONEY TO
DO SOME HOME REPAIRS.
>> THIS WAS ON SALE.
>> Reporter: BUT THE LEGRANDES
DREAM OF PAYING OFF THEIR HOME
ONE DAY WAS SHATTERED IN 2007
WHEN THE HOUSING BUBBLE BURST,
AND, LIKE SO MANY FAMILIES
ACROSS AMERICA, THEY FOUND
THEMSELVES UNDERWATER-- OWING
MORE THAN THEIR HOME WAS WORTH,
MUCH MORE.
>> WE'RE CURRENTLY $270,000
UNDERWATER.
IT WEIGHS ON ME HEAVILY.
I'VE HAD SOME SLEEP ISSUES OVER
THE YEARS.
>> YOU ONLY GET WHAT YOU
ABSOLUTELY NEED.
EVERY NOW AND AGAIN YOU CAN
SPLURGE AND GET SOME ICE CREAM.
>> Reporter: THEIR STREET HAS
BEEN HIT HARD, TOO.
>> THIS WHITE HOUSE DOWN THERE
WAS LOST TO FORECLOSURE AND
RESOLD, THIS HOUSE HERE THAT WAS
LOST TWICE.
>> Reporter: THE COUPLE IS
CURRENT ON THEIR MORTGAGE
PAYMENTS, DUE TO HELP THEY
RECEIVE FROM THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT'S HOME AFFORDABLE
MODIFICATION PROGRAM WHICH CUT
THEIR BALLOONING MONTHLY
PAYMENTS NEARLY IN HALF, BUT
THEY SAY FORECLOSURE IS A VERY
REAL POSSIBILITY UNLESS THEY CAN
REDUCE THE AMOUNT THEY OWE.
>> I DON'T SEE STAYING HERE,
POURING MORE MONEY INTO THIS
HOUSE, KNOWING IN THE END IM
GOING TO HAVE TO SAY HERE YOU
GO.
YOU CAN HAVE IT BACK.
>> Reporter: BUT THE LEGRANDES
AND OTHER FAMILIES IN RICHMOND
WHO ARE ON THE BRINK OF
FORECLOSURE SAY THEY NOW HAVE
HOPE OF KEEPING THEIR HOMES,
THANKS TO THIS WOMAN.
>> THEY SAY, "NO, WE CAN'T."
WE SAY, "YES, WE CAN!"
( CHEERING )
>> Reporter: RICHMOND MAYOR
GAYLE McLAUGHLIN, A FORMER
TEACHER AND MEMBER OF THE GREEN
PARTY IS ON A CRUSADE TO STOP
FORECLOSURES SHE SAYS HAVE
DEVASTATED HER WORKING CLASS,
PREDOMINANTLY MINORITY
COMMUNITY.
DESPITE RISING HOME PRICES IN
MANY AREAS OF THE COUNTRY, HALF
OF ALL RICHMOND HOMES ARE
CURRENTLY UNDERWATER; MEANING
THE HOMEOWNERS OWE MORE ON THE
PROPERTY THAN IT IS WORTH, AND
NEARLY 20% OF HOMEOWNERS HAVE
GONE THROUGH FORECLOSURE.
>> WHEN WE HAVE THESE VACANT
BLIGHTED HOMES, YOU KNOW THAT
THEY'RE REALLY ATTRACTORS OF
CRIME.
THEY REALLY LOWER THE OVERALL
VALUE OF PROPERTY FOR THE ENTIRE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> Reporter: McLAUGHLIN HAS PUT
FORWARD A CONTROVERSIAL AND
NOVEL PLAN USING EMINENT DOMAIN
TO SEIZE UNDERWATER MORTGAGES
FROM WALL STREET FIRMS AND
INVESTORS IN HOPES OF KEEPING
RESIDENTS IN THEIR HOMES.
EMINENT DOMAIN IS USUALLY
INVOKED BY GOVERNMENTS TO TAKE
PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR BIG
PROJECTS LIKE RAILWAYS WHICH ARE
DESIGNED TO SERVE THE PUBLIC
GOOD.
BUT RICHMOND IS ON THE VERGE OF
BEING THE FIRST CITY IN THE
NATION TO INSTEAD USE THE POWER
TO HELP REFINANCE HOMES.
RICHMOND'S CITY MANAGER TOOK THE
FIRST STEPS IN JULY, SENDING
LETTERS TO FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS THAT MANAGE THE
MORTGAGES OF 624 UNDERWATER
HOMES, INCLUDING THE LEGRANDES
OFFERING TO BUY THE LOANS AT
WHAT THE CITY CONSIDERS CURRENT
FAIR MARKET VALUE.
THAT'S CONSIDERABLY LESS MONEY
THAN WHAT IS OWED ON THE
MORTGAGES.
IF THE OFFERS FROM THE CITY ARE
REFUSED, McLAUGHLIN SAYS THE
CITY MAY INVOKE EMINENT DOMAIN,
SEIZING THE LOANS, AND THEN
WORKING WITH OWNERS TO TRY TO
REFINANCE THEIR HOMES AT TODAY'S
LOWER PRICE, RESTORING SOME
EQUITY TO THE HOMEOWNER.
SO FAR, NOT A SINGLE FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION HAS ACCEPTED THE
CITY'S OFFER.
>> WE HAVE MOVED FORWARD WITH
THIS OPTION TO UTILIZE EMINENT
DOMAIN AS A LAST RESORT, BECAUSE
NO SOLUTION TO THIS HOUSING
CRISIS HAS BEEN BROUGHT FORWARD
BY EITHER THE BANKS, OR THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
>> Reporter: IT IS AN
UNPRECEDENTED APPROACH WHICH HAS
GARNERED NATIONAL MEDIA
ATTENTION AND HAS SPARKED A HUGE
DEBATE AMONG RICHMOND'S
RESIDENTS.
>> PEOPLE DIDN'T COMPLAIN WHEN
THEY SIGNED THE PAPERWORK.
NOW THEY'VE MADE A BAD CALL,
THEY ARE LOOKING TO YOU TO BAIL
THEM OUT!
>> Reporter: AT A CONTENTIOUS
CITY COUNCIL MEETING LAST WEEK,
McLAUGHLIN SPARRED WITH TWO OF
THE COUNCIL MEMBERS OPPOSED TO
THE EMINENT DOMAIN PLAN.
>> I CAN NOT IN GOOD CONSCIOUS
PUT THIS CITY AT RISK.
>> Reporter: PASSIONATE
RESIDENTS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
ISSUE LINED-UP TO SPEAK INTO THE
WEE HOURS OF THE MORNING.
>> IF WE DON'T CANCEL THIS
PROGRAM, THEN IT IS GOING TO BE
IMPOSSIBLE TO GET CREDIT HERE IN
THE CITY OF RICHMOND AND BELIEVE
ME THERE'S NOT GOING TO BE AOB J
CREATED IN THIS CITY, THERE'S
NOT A HOUSE IMPROVED.
>> BOUGHT MY HOME FOR 420 AND
NOW WORTH 125.
IF PROGRAM DOESN'T PASS, WE
MOVE.
>> Reporter: VICE MAYOR CORKY
BOOZ, WHO IS STRONGLY AGAINST
THE EMINENT DOMAIN PLAN, SAID
THE CITY COULD FACE SERIOUS
LEGAL CONSEQUENCES IF IT MOVES
FORWARD.
>> WE ARE THE GUINEA PIG.
IS 110,000 PEOPLE WORTH FIGHTING
WALL STREET?
>> YES!
>> THAT'S FINE, BUT WHEN WE HAVE
A MULTIMILLION DOLLAR SUIT AND
YOUR TAX DOLLAR HAS TO PAY IT, I
HOPE YOU ARE STILL THERE
HOLLERING AND SAYING, "YEAH,
YEAH, I WANT TO PAY THAT BILL."
>> Reporter: LOCAL REAL ESTATE
AGENT JEFFREY WRIGHT IS ALSO
OPPOSED TO THE USE OF EMINENT
DOMAIN.
HE IS PART OF A CAMPAIGN, FUNDED
BY THE CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATN OFIO
REALTORS, TO STOP THE PLAN.
WRIGHT SAYS LENDING INSTITUTIONS
HAVE NO LEGAL OBLIGATION TO
NEGOTIATE WITH HOMEOWNERS, AND
HE FEARS THEY WILL NO LONGER
WANT TO DO BUSINESS IN RICHMOND.
>> IF A LENDER WANTS TO
RENEGOTIATE, THAT'S BETWEEN THE
LENDER AND THE BORROWER.
IT'S NOT FOR A MUNICIPALITY SUCH
AS THE CITY OF RICHMOND TO
BECOME AN INTERLOPER INTO
SOMEONE ELSE'S AGREEMENT,
UTILIZING STRONG ARM TACTICS
SUCH AS EMINENT DOMAIN TO FORCE
THEM TO HAVE TO RENEGOTIATE AN
AGREEMENT.
>> Reporter: WRIGHT ALSO
BELIEVES HOMEOWNERS, MANY OF
WHOM CLAIM PREDATORY LENDING
FORCED THEM INTO BAD MORTGAGES,
BEAR THE BURDEN OF
RESPONSIBILITY, NOT THE BANKS.
>> IN MY 34 YEARS WITH THE REAL
ESTATE BUSINESS, AT NO POINT IN
TIME HAVE I EVER SEEN ANYONE
STRAPPED TO A CHAIR, BURNED WITH
CIGARETTES, PISTOL WHIPPED,
FORCED TO SIGN A LOAN AGREEMENT.
>> Reporter: WHILE EMOTIONS ARE
RUNNING HIGH IN RICHMOND,
THERE'S AN EVEN BIGGER BATTLE
UNDERWAYWE
SUPPORTERS OF THE CITY'S PLAN,
AND WALL STREET.
>> DO I BELIEVE THAT WALL STREET
IS CIRCLING THE WAGONS IN ANY
WAY THEY CAN?
OF COURSE THEY ARE.
THEY DON'T, FOR WHATEVER REASON,
THEY DON'T LIKE THIS.
>> Reporter: STEVEN GLUCKSTERN
IS THE CHAIRMAN OF THE SAN
FRANCISCO PRIVATE INVESTMENT
FIRM MORTGAGE RESOLUTION
PARTNERS, M.R.P.
HE IS THE ONE WHO PROPOSED THE
EMINENT DOMAIN PLAN TO RICHMOND
LEADERS AND HE'S NOW WORKING
CLOSELY WITH THE CITY TO
IMPLEMENT IT.
AND HERE'S AN IMPORTANT POINT TO
UNDERSTAND: GLUCKSTERN AND THE
CITY DIDN'T JUST RANDOMLY PICK
624 MORTGAGES TO BUY.
THEY WENT AFTER HOMES WITH A
VERY SPECIFIC, COMPLICATED LOAN,
KNOWN AS PRIVATE LABEL
SECURITIZED MORTGAGES.
NOW THESE ARE MORTGAGES WHICH
HAVE BEEN SOLD FROM THE ORIGINAL
LENDING INSTITUTION, BUNDLED
TOGETHER WITH OTHER LOANS IN
TRUSTS, AND THEN SOLD TO PRIVATE
INVESTORS.
THEY ARE TRADED DAILY, SO
HUNDREDS, POSSIBLY THOUSANDS OF
INDIVIDUALS HAVE A FINANCIAL
STAKE IN THEM.
GLUCKSTERN SAYS, UNLIKE A
TRADITIONOA
BETWEEN A BANK AND A BORROWER,
THE COMPLICATED STRUCTURE OF
P.L.S. MORTGAGES MAKES IT VERY
DIFFICULT FOR RICHMOND
HOMEOWNERS AND HOMEOWNERS AROUND
THE COUNTRY TO KNOW WHO THEY CAN
ACTUALLY NEGOTIATE WITH TO
REDUCE THEIR LOAN.
>> THERE'S ABOUT FOUR AND A HALF
MILLION PRIVATE LABEL
SECURITIZATION MORTGAGES, HALF
OF WHICH ARE UNDERWATER, HALF OF
WHICH WE KNOW ARE GOING TO
DEFAULT.
THAT'S TWO AND A HALF MILLION
AMERICAN FAMILIES.
THIS IS A HAIRBALL STUCK IN
AMERICA'S ECONOMY RIGHT NOW, AND
IT'S GOT TO GET HACKED UP.
>> Reporter: BUT ONE OF THE MOST
CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS OF THE
CITY'S PLAN IS THAT GLUCKSTERN'S
COMPANY, ITS INVESTORS, AND THE
CITY OF RICHMOND STAND TO MAKE
MONEY IF THE EMINENT DOMAIN PLAN
MOVES FORWARD.
HERE'S HOW THEIR PLAN WORKS.
IN A HYPOTHETICAL EXAMPLE, IF A
HOME WAS ORIGINALLY PURCHASED
FOR $400,000 AND IS NOW WORTH
$200,000, THE CITY WOULD USE
EMINENT DOMAIN TO SEIZE THE LOAN
FOR $160,000.
THAT'S 80% OF THE CURRENT FAIR
MARKET HOME VALUE.
THE CITY WOULD THEN HELP
QUALIFIED HOMEOWNERS TO
REFINANCE, REDUCING THEIR
MONTHLY PAYMENTS, AND GIVING
THEM $10,000 BACK IN EQUITY.
THAT LEAVES $30,000 TO BE
DIVIDED BETWEEN THE CITY OF
RICHMOND, M.R.P. AND ITS
INVESTORS.
>> THAT'S CALLED STEALING.
>> Reporter: SCOTT SIMON IS A
FORMER MANAGING DIRECTOR OF
PIMCO, ONE OF THE WORLD'S
LARGEST BOND FUNDS WHICH INVESTS
IN MORTGAGE AND ASSET-BACKED
SECURITIES.
SIMON SAYS M.R.P. AND RICHMOND
ARE TAKING PROFITS AWAY FROM
AVERAGE AMERICANS.
>> THE LENDERS, THE INVESTORS,
ITS REALLY THE SAME THING IN
THIS CASE, ARE IN A LARGE PART
YOUR VIEWERS.
IT'S THEIR 401(k), IT'S PENSION
PLANS, ITS FIREMEN, AND
POLICEMEN, AND TEACHERS, IT'S
EXACTLY BACKWARDS OF THE WAY
M.R.P. MAKES IT SOUND, WHICH IS
THAT RICH PEOPLE ARE, YOU KNOW,
WALL STREETS TRYING TO MAKE
MONEY.
>> Reporter: AND SIMON SAYS AS
THE CITY'S MOVE COULD HAVE VERY
REAL CONSEQUENCES FOR ALL
RESIDENTS OF RICHMOND, EVEN
THOSE NOT UNDERWATER ON THEIR
MORTGAGES.
>> WHY WOULD YOU EVER LEND MONEY
IN AN AREA WHERE THE GOVEMENTRN
COULD JUST SAY, WE'RE GOING TO
TAKE IT?
A PLACE LIKE RICHMOND WILL BE
CUT OFF, FANNIE AND FREDDIE WILL
ALL WALK AWAY, THE BIG LENDERS
WILL ALL WALK AWAY, AND YOU WANT
TO SEE SOMETHING TERRIBLE
HAPPEN?
WAIT UNTIL YOU CANT GET A
MORTGAGE IN RICHMOND.
>> THE FACT IS YOU CANNOT
RESTRICT CREDIT TO A COMMUNITY.
THE FACT THAT MORTGAGES WOULD BE
BOYCOTTED, OR ANY KIND OF,
THAT'S AN ILLEGAL TYPE OF
ACTION.
>> Reporter: STILL, RICHMOND MAY
ALREADY BE SEEING BLOWBACK FROM
WALL STREET.
LAST MONTH, THE CITY WAS UNABLE
TO SELL ITS HIGHLY RATED
MUNICIPAL BONDS IN THE OPEN
MARKET.
AND A COALITION OF MORTGAGES
BONDHOLDERS, WHICH ARE BEING
REPRESENTED BY TRUSTEES WELLS
FARGO, DEUTSCHE BANK, AND THE
BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, HAVE
BEEN CHALLENGING THE CITY AND
M.R.P. IN FEDERAL COURT.
MAYOR McLAUGHLIN AND A GROUP OF
SUPPORTERS GATHERED OUTSIDE
WELLS FARGO LAST MONTH AND
DEMANDED THE BANK AND OTHER
LENDING INSTITUTIONS STOP THEIR
LEGAL ACTIONS AND WORK WITH THE
CITY.
>> THIS IS BUILDING TO BE A
NATIONAL MOVEMENT.
THERE ARE MANY CITIES LIKE
RICHMOND THAT AND ARE SUFFERING
BIG TIME.
>> Reporter: AT THE END OF THEIR
SEVEN-HOUR MEETING LAST WEEK THE
RICHMOND CITY COUNCIL VOTED FOUR
TO THREE TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
THE EMINENT DOMAIN PLAN.
BUT CITY LEADERS, INCLUDING
MAYOR McLAUGHLIN, SAY THEY ARE
STILL HOPEFUL THEY CAN WORK OUT
SOME KIND OF AGREEMENT WITH THE
BANKS AND BONDHOLDERS USING
EMINENT DOMAIN ONLY AS A LAST
RESORT.
>> Ifill: A POSTSCRIPT:
EARLIER THIS WEEK, A FEDERAL
JUDGE IN SAN FRANCISCO DISMISSED
THE INVESTORS' LAWSUIT AGAINST
RICHMOND AND M.R.P., SAYING THE
CASE HAD BEEN FILED PREMATURELY.
BUT HE DID NOTULE  RON THE
MERITS OF THE CASE.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO THE REMARKS
MADE BY THE POPE AND THE
UNUSUALLY BLUNT LANGUAGE HE USED
ABOUT THE STATE OF THE CATHOLIC
CHURCH.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS MORE ON THE
STORY.
>> Brown: THE POPE'S WORDS CAME
IN A WIDE-RANGING INTERVIEW WITH
AN ITALIAN JESUIT MAGAZINE, DONE
IN CONJUNCTION WITH A NUMBER OF
JESUIT PUBLICATIONS AROUND THE
WORLD, INCLUDING "AMERICA"
MAGAZINE PUBLISHED IN THE U.S.
ITS EDITOR IN CHIEF, FATHER MATT
MALONE, JOINS US NOW.
WELCOME TO YOU, FATHER.
I WANTED TO ASK YOU, FIRST,
BRIEFLY, JUST HOW UNUSUALLY THIS
IS AND HOW SURPRISING IT IS TO
HAVE THE POPE SPEAKING OUT IN
THIS WAY.
>> IT'S ACTUALLY UNPRECEDENTED.
OTHER POPES HAVE GIVEN
INTERVIEWS.
POPE BENEDICT SPECIFICALLY GAVE
TWO BOOK LENGTH INTERVIEWS TO A
GERMAN JOURNALIST BUT THEY WERE
HIGHLY REDACTED AND HIGHLY
PHILOSOPHICAL.
NO POPE HAS REALLY GIVEN AN
INTERVIEW THAT WAS THIS FRANK,
THIS INTIMATE.
>> THAT'S LOOK AT SOME OF THE
LANGUAGE GETTING A LOT OF
ATTENTION.
HE SAID WE CANNOT INSIST ONLY ON
ISSUES RELATED TO ABORTION, GAY
MARRIAGE AND THE USE OF
CONTRACEPTIVE METHODS.
THIS NOT POSSIBLE.
I HAVE NOT SPOKEN MUCH ABOUT
THIS THINGS AND I WAS
REPRIMANDED WHICH THAT.
THE TEACHING OF THE CHURCH IS
CLEAR AND I AM A SON OF THE
CHURCH BUT IT IS NOT NECESSARY
TO TALK ABOUT THESE ISSUES ALL
THE TIME.
HE LATER USES THE WORD OBSESSED,
THE CHURCH IS OBSESSED WITH
THESE THINGS.
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF IT?
>> WELL HE IS NOT CHANGING ANY
OF THE CHURCH'S TEACHINGS PER
SE.
BUT WHAT HE IS DOING IS
RE-ORDERING OUR PRIORITIES.
WHAT HE IS REMINDING THE CHURCH
IS THAT THE FUNDAMENTAL AND MOST
IMPORTANT TEACHING OF THE CHURCH
IS THAT WE HAVE A GOD OF LOVE
WHO HAS TREATED US AND HAS
REDEEMED US.
AND ONLY WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF
OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH HIM DOES
THE REST OF WHAT THE CHURCH
TEACH MAKE SENSE.
>> Brown: SO NOT CHANGING ANY
DOCTRINE OR POLICY.
SO DOES THAT HAVE ANY PRACTICAL
IMPLICATION, FOR EXAMPLE, HERE
IN THE CHURCH AND THE U.S.?
>> IT DOES, I THINK.
BECAUSE, FOR INSTANCE, YOU KNOW,
IN THE MODERN ERA, THE CHURCH
HAS ALWAYS TAUGHT OFFICIALLY
THAT GUY AND LAZY BABY PEOPLE
SHOULD BE WELCOME WITH OPEN ARMS
AND ACCEPTED AND THEIR DIGNITY
SHOULD BE RESPECTED.
THAT HAS ALWAYS BEEN AN ASPECT
OF WHAT THE CHURCH HAS TAUGHT.
BUT WHAT THE POPE TOLD US TODAY
IS THAT 1 NOT ONLY AN ASPECT OF
WHAT THE CHURCH TEACHES ABOUT
HOMOSEXUALITY BUT IT IS THE MOST
IMPORTANT ASPECT.
IN OTHER WORDS HE HAS NOT
CHANGED THE TEACHING BUT HE HAS
DRAWN OUR ATTENTION TO ANOTHER
ASPECT OF IT AND SAID THAT OUGHT
TO TAKE PRIORITY.
>> PERHAPS THE STRONGEST
LANGUAGE HE USED THAT GOT SOME
ATTENTION, I WANT TO PUT THAT UP
FOR OUR AUDIENCE, HE SAID WE
HAVE TO FIND A NEW BALANCE,
OTHERWISE EVEN THE MORAL EDIFICE
OF THE CHURCH IS LIKELY TO FALL,
LIKE A HOUSE OF CARDS, LOSING
THE FRESHNESS AND FRAGRANCE OF
THE GOSPEL.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
AND WHAT THE POPE IS SAYING
THERE IS THAT RULES ONLY MAKE
SENSE IN THE CONTEXT OF
RELATIONSHIPS.
RULES EXIST TO SAFEGUARD
AND THE MOST IMPORTANT
RELATIONSHIPS.
RELATIONSHIP THAT THE CHURCH
AND THE MOST IMPORTANT
HAS, THE MOST IMPORTANT
RELATIONSHIP THAT THE CHURCH
RELATIONSHIP ANY OF US COULD
HAS, THE MOST IMPORTANT
HAVE IS OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH
RELATIONSHIP ANY OF US COULD
THIS GOD OF LOVE WHO HAS CREATED
HAVE IS OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH
AND REDEMMED US.
THIS GOD OF LOVE WHO HAS CREATED
AND THE POPE SAID WHEN WE FORGET
AND REDEMMED US.
THAT, WHEN WE FORGET THAT
AND THE POPE SAID WHEN WE FORGET
ESSENTIAL TRUTH OF WHO WE ARE,
THAT, WHEN WE FORGET THAT
THEN THE REST OF IT JUST DOESN'T
ESSENTIAL TRUTH OF WHO WE ARE,
MAKE SENSE AND IT BECOMES A VERY
THEN THE REST OF IT JUST DOESN'T
BLUNT INSTRUMENT.
MAKE SENSE AND IT BECOMES A VERY
>> WHO IS HE SPEAKING TO HERE?
BLUNT INSTRUMENT.
YES, TO AUDIENCES AROUND THE
>> WHO IS HE SPEAKING TO HERE?
WORLD, IS HE SPEAKING TO FOACIAL
YES, TO AUDIENCES AROUND THE
ROME, THE VATICAN, TO FOLKS LIKE
WORLD, IS HE SPEAKING TO FOACIAL
YOU?
ROME, THE VATICAN, TO FOLKS LIKE
HOW STRONG A MESSAGE IS THIS?
YOU?
>> WELL, INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH HE
HOW STRONG A MESSAGE IS THIS?
IS NOT SPEAKING TO THE VATICAN
>> WELL, INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH HE
BECAUSE HE LARGELY BYPASSED THE
IS NOT SPEAKING TO THE VATICAN
VATD CAN IN GIVING THIS
BECAUSE HE LARGELY BYPASSED THE
INTERVIEW.
VATD CAN IN GIVING THIS
IT WENT DIRECTLY TO AMERICAN
INTERVIEW.
MAGAZINE AND DIRECTLY TO ROME
IT WENT DIRECTLY TO AMERICAN
ASK WE PUBLISHED IT WITHOUT
MAGAZINE AND DIRECTLY TO ROME
CENSORSHIP WITH THE VATICAN
ASK WE PUBLISHED IT WITHOUT
BUREAUCRACY.
CENSORSHIP WITH THE VATICAN
HE IS SPEAKING I THINK DIRECTLY
BUREAUCRACY.
TO THE PEOPLE OF GOD AND HE IS
HE IS SPEAKING I THINK DIRECTLY
SAYING TO THE PEOPLE IN THE PEWS
TO THE PEOPLE OF GOD AND HE IS
AND SAYING ANY REFORM, ANY
SAYING TO THE PEOPLE IN THE PEWS
CHANGE IN THE CHURCH THAT IS TO
AND SAYING ANY REFORM, ANY
COME OR NOT TO COME, IT HAS TO
CHANGE IN THE CHURCH THAT IS TO
BEGIN WITH A CHANGE IN OUR
COME OR NOT TO COME, IT HAS TO
HEARTS.
BEGIN WITH A CHANGE IN OUR
IT HAS TO BEGIN WITH THE REFORM
HEARTS.
OF OUR ATTITUDES.
IT HAS TO BEGIN WITH THE REFORM
AND THE FIRST WAY THAT YOU BEGIN
OF OUR ATTITUDES.
THAT CHANGE AND THAT REFORM IS
AND THE FIRST WAY THAT YOU BEGIN
BY REMEMBERING WHO YOU ARE, AND
THAT CHANGE AND THAT REFORM IS
THE PEOPLE IN THIS INTERVIEW IS
BY REMEMBERING WHO YOU ARE, AND
REMINDING US WHO WE ARE AND IN A
THE PEOPLE IN THIS INTERVIEW IS
VERY CANDID WAY REVEALING WHO HE
REMINDING US WHO WE ARE AND IN A
IS.
VERY CANDID WAY REVEALING WHO HE
>> YES, I JUST WANT TO ASK YOU
IS.
ABOUT THAT BRIEFLY BECAUSE HE
>> YES, I JUST WANT TO ASK YOU
ALSO MENTIONS SOME OF HIS LOVES,
ABOUT THAT BRIEFLY BECAUSE HE
MOZART, DOSTOEVSKY, AND THAT WAS
ALSO MENTIONS SOME OF HIS LOVES,
INTERESTING TO HEAR HIM TALKING
MOZART, DOSTOEVSKY, AND THAT WAS
ABOUT HIS ARTISTIC INFLUENCES.
INTERESTING TO HEAR HIM TALKING
>> AND EVEN WAGNER, HE HAS QUITE
ABOUT HIS ARTISTIC INFLUENCES.
ECLECTIC TASTES.
>> AND EVEN WAGNER, HE HAS QUITE
THAT'S ABSOLUTELY TRUE.
ECLECTIC TASTES.
YOU KNOW, HE IS A MAN OF THE
THAT'S ABSOLUTELY TRUE.
HEART.
YOU KNOW, HE IS A MAN OF THE
SO HE IS ATTRACTED TO -- HE IS
HEART.
ATTRACTED TO THE AFFAIRS OF THE
SO HE IS ATTRACTED TO -- HE IS
HEART.
ATTRACTED TO THE AFFAIRS OF THE
AND YOU KNOW, THE COMEDY AND
HEART.
TRAGEDY OF HUMAN LIVING.
AND YOU KNOW, THE COMEDY AND
AND HE FINDS THAT IN THOSE
TRAGEDY OF HUMAN LIVING.
ARTISTS.
AND HE FINDS THAT IN THOSE
>> FATHER MATT MALONE OF
ARTISTS.
AMERICAN MAGAZINE.
>> FATHER MATT MALONE OF
THANK YOU VERY MUCH OF THE.
AMERICAN MAGAZINE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH OF THE.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT,
>> THANK YOU.
UNDERSTANDING THE HEALTH CARE
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT,
REFORM LAW.
UNDERSTANDING THE HEALTH CARE
WE'VE BEEN EXAMINING THE CHANGES
REFORM LAW.
SCHEDULED TO TAKE EFFECT WHEN
WE'VE BEEN EXAMINING THE CHANGES
ONLINE INSURANCE MARKETPLACES
SCHEDULED TO TAKE EFFECT WHEN
KNOWN AS EXCHANGES OPEN NEXT
ONLINE INSURANCE MARKETPLACES
MONTH.
KNOWN AS EXCHANGES OPEN NEXT
OUR SERIES OF REPORTS, ANSWERING
MONTH.
SOME OF YOUR MORE FREQUENTLY
OUR SERIES OF REPORTS, ANSWERING
ASKED QUESTIONS CONTINUES WITH
SOME OF YOUR MORE FREQUENTLY
RAY SUAREZ AS OUR GUIDE.
ASKED QUESTIONS CONTINUES WITH
>> WE AGAIN FOCUS ON QUESTIONS
RAY SUAREZ AS OUR GUIDE.
ABOUT EXCHANGES AND INSURANCE
>> WE AGAIN FOCUS ON QUESTIONS
RATES.
ABOUT EXCHANGES AND INSURANCE
TONIGHT, WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT
RATES.
WHAT PREMIUMS MIGHT COST?
TONIGHT, WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT
WE RECEIVED A LOT OF QUESTIONS
WHAT PREMIUMS MIGHT COST?
ABOUT THIS AND THIS TIME WE'RE
WE RECEIVED A LOT OF QUESTIONS
JOINED BY NEWSHOUR REGULAR SUSAN
ABOUT THIS AND THIS TIME WE'RE
DENTZER.
JOINED BY NEWSHOUR REGULAR SUSAN
SUSAN, THERE'S WIDESPREAD EITHER
DENTZER.
MISUNDERSTANDING OR CONFUSION
SUSAN, THERE'S WIDESPREAD EITHER
ABOUT WHAT THIS IS GOING TO
MISUNDERSTANDING OR CONFUSION
MEAN, EVEN AMONG PEOPLE WHO ARE
ABOUT WHAT THIS IS GOING TO
ALREADY INSURED, THEY THINK
MEAN, EVEN AMONG PEOPLE WHO ARE
SOMETHING IS COMING TO CHANGE
ALREADY INSURED, THEY THINK
THEIR LIVES.
SOMETHING IS COMING TO CHANGE
WE GOT QUESTIONS LIKE THIS ONE.
THEIR LIVES.
>> MY NAME IS BURTON ASK I'M
WE GOT QUESTIONS LIKE THIS ONE.
FROM ODENTON, MARYLAND, AND MY
>> MY NAME IS BURTON ASK I'M
QUESTION FOR THE AFFORDABLE CARE
FROM ODENTON, MARYLAND, AND MY
ACT IS:  WILL THE PREMIUMS GO UP
QUESTION FOR THE AFFORDABLE CARE
FOR THOSE WHO CURRENTLY HAVE
ACT IS:  WILL THE PREMIUMS GO UP
HEALTH INSURANCE AND IF SO HOW
FOR THOSE WHO CURRENTLY HAVE
MUCH?
HEALTH INSURANCE AND IF SO HOW
>> DO WE EVEN KNOW THAT YET?
MUCH?
>> WELL, IF YOU HAVE HEALTH
>> DO WE EVEN KNOW THAT YET?
INSURANCE THROUGH YOUR EMPLOYER,
>> WELL, IF YOU HAVE HEALTH
YOUR HEALTH INSURANCE IS
INSURANCE THROUGH YOUR EMPLOYER,
PROBABLY ONLY GOING TO BE
YOUR HEALTH INSURANCE IS
AFFECTED BY ALL OF THE NORMAL
PROBABLY ONLY GOING TO BE
THINGS THAT AFFECT HEALTH
AFFECTED BY ALL OF THE NORMAL
INSURANCE PREMIUMS LIKE THE FACT
THINGS THAT AFFECT HEALTH
THAT HEALTH CARE COSTS ARE
INSURANCE PREMIUMS LIKE THE FACT
RISING AND EVEN THOUGH THEY'RE
THAT HEALTH CARE COSTS ARE
NOT RISING AS FAST NOW AS THEY
RISING AND EVEN THOUGH THEY'RE
WERE SEVERAL YEARS AGO, THEY'RE
NOT RISING AS FAST NOW AS THEY
STILL GOING UP 4 PERCENT OR MORE
WERE SEVERAL YEARS AGO, THEY'RE
A YEAR.
STILL GOING UP 4 PERCENT OR MORE
SO GENERALLY SPEAKING FOR
A YEAR.
EVERYBODY HEALTH INSURANCE
SO GENERALLY SPEAKING FOR
PREMIUM RESTINING TO RISE.
EVERYBODY HEALTH INSURANCE
FOR PEOPLE BUYING COVERAGE
PREMIUM RESTINING TO RISE.
THROUGH THE EXCHANGES OR THE --
FOR PEOPLE BUYING COVERAGE
AS THEY'RE OFFICIALLY CALLED THE
THROUGH THE EXCHANGES OR THE --
MARKETPLACES, THE PREMIUMS WILL
AS THEY'RE OFFICIALLY CALLED THE
BE DIFFERENT FROM PREMIUMS
MARKETPLACES, THE PREMIUMS WILL
AVAILABLE ON PLANS PREVIOUSLY
BE DIFFERENT FROM PREMIUMS
BECAUSE THE PLANS ARE DIFFERENT.
AVAILABLE ON PLANS PREVIOUSLY
THE PLANS ARE COMING INTO THE
BECAUSE THE PLANS ARE DIFFERENT.
MARKET.
THE PLANS ARE COMING INTO THE
THEY HAVE NEW REQUIREMENTS ON
MARKET.
THEM ABOUT WHAT THEY HAVE TO
THEY HAVE NEW REQUIREMENTS ON
COVER.
THEM ABOUT WHAT THEY HAVE TO
WE NOW KNOW THAT NO PRE-EXISTING
COVER.
DIHELD AGAINST ANYBODY AND THATS
WE NOW KNOW THAT NO PRE-EXISTING
GOING TO AFFECT THE PRICE AND WE
DIHELD AGAINST ANYBODY AND THATS
ALSO KNOW THAT THINGS LIKE NO
GOING TO AFFECT THE PRICE AND WE
MORE ANNUAL LIMITS ON WHAT
ALSO KNOW THAT THINGS LIKE NO
HEALTH CARE INSURANCE PAYOUTS
MORE ANNUAL LIMITS ON WHAT
CAN BE COME INTO EFFECT, NO
HEALTH CARE INSURANCE PAYOUTS
LIFETIME LIMITS.
CAN BE COME INTO EFFECT, NO
SO IN ESSENCE, THE COVERAGE IS
LIFETIME LIMITS.
DIFFERENT FROM WHAT WAS
SO IN ESSENCE, THE COVERAGE IS
AVAILABLE PREVIOUSLY FOR PEOPLE
DIFFERENT FROM WHAT WAS
BUYING COVERAGE IN THE
AVAILABLE PREVIOUSLY FOR PEOPLE
INDIVIDUAL MARKET, AND THE
BUYING COVERAGE IN THE
PRICES ARE GOING TO VARY,
INDIVIDUAL MARKET, AND THE
EXCHANGE BY EXCHANGE, DEPENDING
PRICES ARE GOING TO VARY,
ON HOW MANY INSURERS BID TO
EXCHANGE BY EXCHANGE, DEPENDING
PARTICIPATE IN THE PROGRAM AND
ON HOW MANY INSURERS BID TO
HOW HEAVY A BARGAIN STATES DROVE
PARTICIPATE IN THE PROGRAM AND
WITH THE HEALTH INSURERS THAT
HOW HEAVY A BARGAIN STATES DROVE
ARE COMING INTO THE MARKETPLACE.
WITH THE HEALTH INSURERS THAT
SO WE'RE SEEING A LOT OF
ARE COMING INTO THE MARKETPLACE.
VARIATION IN RATES AROUND THE
SO WE'RE SEEING A LOT OF
COUNTRY.
VARIATION IN RATES AROUND THE
THAT SAID, IT'S ALSO FAIR TO SAY
COUNTRY.
THOUGH IN GENERAL THE RATES ARE
THAT SAID, IT'S ALSO FAIR TO SAY
LOWER THAN MANY PEOPLE EXPECTED
THOUGH IN GENERAL THE RATES ARE
THEY WOULD BE.
LOWER THAN MANY PEOPLE EXPECTED
>> AMONG THAT FIRST GROUP, THE
THEY WOULD BE.
MAJORITY OF AMERICAN WHOSE HAVE
>> AMONG THAT FIRST GROUP, THE
HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE AND
MAJORITY OF AMERICAN WHOSE HAVE
GET IT THROUGH THEIR EMPLOYER,
HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE AND
AREN'T THERE ANY TAXES OR FEES
GET IT THROUGH THEIR EMPLOYER,
THAT ARE GOING TO BE ADDED TO
AREN'T THERE ANY TAXES OR FEES
THE PREMIUMS THEY ALREADY PAY TO
THAT ARE GOING TO BE ADDED TO
HELP IMPLEMENT THIS NEW SYSTEM?
THE PREMIUMS THEY ALREADY PAY TO
>> EVENTUALLY THAT'S RIGHT.
HELP IMPLEMENT THIS NEW SYSTEM?
VERY HIGH COST HEALTH INSURANCE
>> EVENTUALLY THAT'S RIGHT.
PLANS ARE GOING TO BE SUBJECT TO
VERY HIGH COST HEALTH INSURANCE
A SO-CALLED CADILLAC TAX.
PLANS ARE GOING TO BE SUBJECT TO
BUT THAT DOESN'T TAKE AFFECT
A SO-CALLED CADILLAC TAX.
RIGHT AWAY.
BUT THAT DOESN'T TAKE AFFECT
SO IN GENERAL, FOR THE EARLY
RIGHT AWAY.
YEARS OF THIS, IF YOU HAVE
SO IN GENERAL, FOR THE EARLY
EMPLOYER-PROVIDED COVERAGE, YOU
YEARS OF THIS, IF YOU HAVE
WILL BE SUBJECT TO THE SAME
EMPLOYER-PROVIDED COVERAGE, YOU
FORCES THAT WERE DRIVING HEALTH
WILL BE SUBJECT TO THE SAME
INSURANCE PREMIUMS UP ALL ALONG.
FORCES THAT WERE DRIVING HEALTH
SOME ADDITIONAL EXPENSE RELATED
INSURANCE PREMIUMS UP ALL ALONG.
TO SOME OF THE CHANGES IN THAT
SOME ADDITIONAL EXPENSE RELATED
COVERAGE.
TO SOME OF THE CHANGES IN THAT
AS WE KNOW, FOR EXAMPLE, ADULT
COVERAGE.
CHILDREN CAN NOW STAY ON THEIR
AS WE KNOW, FOR EXAMPLE, ADULT
EMPLOYER PLANS THAT THEIR
CHILDREN CAN NOW STAY ON THEIR
PARENTS HAVE.
EMPLOYER PLANS THAT THEIR
SO MODEST EFFECTS ON THAT -- ON
PARENTS HAVE.
PREMIUMS FROM THAT, BUT IN
SO MODEST EFFECTS ON THAT -- ON
GENERAL, MOST OF THE DIFFERENCE
PREMIUMS FROM THAT, BUT IN
IN PREMIUMS IS GOING TO BE SEEN
GENERAL, MOST OF THE DIFFERENCE
BY PEOPLE WHO PREVIOUSLY HAD TO
IN PREMIUMS IS GOING TO BE SEEN
BUY COVERAGE ON THE INDIVIDUAL
BY PEOPLE WHO PREVIOUSLY HAD TO
HEALTH INSURANCE MARKET AND NOW
BUY COVERAGE ON THE INDIVIDUAL
HAD THE ABILITY TO BUY THAT
HEALTH INSURANCE MARKET AND NOW
THROUGH A MARKETPLACE.
HAD THE ABILITY TO BUY THAT
>> SOME PEOPLE WHO ARE ENTERING
THROUGH A MARKETPLACE.
THE CHANGES ARE A LITTLE WORRIED
>> SOME PEOPLE WHO ARE ENTERING
ABOUT WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO TO
THE CHANGES ARE A LITTLE WORRIED
FIND THERE ANDHAT W "AFFORDABLE"
ABOUT WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO TO
MEANS.
FIND THERE ANDHAT W "AFFORDABLE"
WE GOT A LETTER FROM BILL
MEANS.
WILLIAMS OF FORT COLLINS,
WE GOT A LETTER FROM BILL
COLORADO, WHO WRITES:  "I
WILLIAMS OF FORT COLLINS,
PRESENTLY PAY APPROXIMATELY $100
COLORADO, WHO WRITES:  "I
A MONTH PER PERSON IN OUR
PRESENTLY PAY APPROXIMATELY $100
HOUSEHOLD.
A MONTH PER PERSON IN OUR
HOW COME THE OBAMA PREMIUMS I
HOUSEHOLD.
HEAR BANTERED ABOUT ARE $600 FOR
HOW COME THE OBAMA PREMIUMS I
EACH PERSON?
HEAR BANTERED ABOUT ARE $600 FOR
HOW CAN THIS BE CONSIDERED
EACH PERSON?
REMOTELY AFFORDABLE?
HOW CAN THIS BE CONSIDERED
THIS TAKES US FROM $300 A MONTH
REMOTELY AFFORDABLE?
TO $1,800 A MONTH AND $1,800 PER
THIS TAKES US FROM $300 A MONTH
MONTH TOTALS TO $21,600 PER
TO $1,800 A MONTH AND $1,800 PER
YEAR.
MONTH TOTALS TO $21,600 PER
WHAT CAN YOU TELL BILL?
YEAR.
>> THERE ARE GOING TO BE A
WHAT CAN YOU TELL BILL?
VARIETY OF PLAN AVAILABLE ON
>> THERE ARE GOING TO BE A
EXCHANGES INCLUDING IN
VARIETY OF PLAN AVAILABLE ON
COLORADO'S, SUBJECT TO, FOR
EXCHANGES INCLUDING IN
EXAMPLE, DIFFERENT LEVELS OF
COLORADO'S, SUBJECT TO, FOR
COVERING.
EXAMPLE, DIFFERENT LEVELS OF
THEY WILL BE RATED BY SO-CALLED
COVERING.
MEDALS, BRONZE LEVEL, SILVER
THEY WILL BE RATED BY SO-CALLED
LEVEL, GOLD AND PLATINUM.
MEDALS, BRONZE LEVEL, SILVER
AND WHAT THIS SPEAKS TO IS HOW
LEVEL, GOLD AND PLATINUM.
MUCH OF A PERSON'S TOTAL HEALTH
AND WHAT THIS SPEAKS TO IS HOW
CARE COST EVERY YEAR DOES THE
MUCH OF A PERSON'S TOTAL HEALTH
INSURANCE PLAN COVER.
CARE COST EVERY YEAR DOES THE
THE BRONZE PLANS COVER ONLY
INSURANCE PLAN COVER.
60 PERCENT OF TOTAL COSTS.
THE BRONZE PLANS COVER ONLY
AND THE SILVER, WHICH MANY
60 PERCENT OF TOTAL COSTS.
PEOPLE WILL BUY COVERS
AND THE SILVER, WHICH MANY
07 PERCENT AND SO ON.
PEOPLE WILL BUY COVERS
SO, DEPENDING ON WHAT LEVEL OF
07 PERCENT AND SO ON.
COVERAGE YOU PICK, PREMIUMS WILL
SO, DEPENDING ON WHAT LEVEL OF
BE LOWER OR HIGHER.
COVERAGE YOU PICK, PREMIUMS WILL
FOR EXAMPLE, IN COLORADO, A
BE LOWER OR HIGHER.
BRONZE LEVEL PLAN, AVAILABLE FOR
FOR EXAMPLE, IN COLORADO, A
A 40-YEAR-OLD MALE CAN BE HAD
BRONZE LEVEL PLAN, AVAILABLE FOR
FOR AS LOW AS $186 A MONTH.
A 40-YEAR-OLD MALE CAN BE HAD
SO THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME
FOR AS LOW AS $186 A MONTH.
VARIATION.
SO THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME
THERE ALSO IS VARIATION WITHIN
VARIATION.
STATES, DEPENDING ON WHAT THE
THERE ALSO IS VARIATION WITHIN
COUNTY IS AND HOW MANY HEALTH
STATES, DEPENDING ON WHAT THE
CARE PROVIDERS AND INSURERS BID
COUNTY IS AND HOW MANY HEALTH
TO PROVIDE COVERAGE.
CARE PROVIDERS AND INSURERS BID
AND ALSO IT'S VERY CLEAR THAT IN
TO PROVIDE COVERAGE.
SOME STATES AND SOME CHANGES,
AND ALSO IT'S VERY CLEAR THAT IN
INSURERS DROVE VERY HARD
SOME STATES AND SOME CHANGES,
BARGAINS WITH HEALTH CARE
INSURERS DROVE VERY HARD
PROVIDERS TO GET THERE EMTO TAKE
BARGAINS WITH HEALTH CARE
LOWER RATES.
PROVIDERS TO GET THERE EMTO TAKE
>> IN A CASE LIKE BILL'S, HE HEY
LOWER RATES.
NOT -- MAY NOT BE COMPARING HIS
>> IN A CASE LIKE BILL'S, HE HEY
HUNDRED DOLLAR PER FAMILY MEMBER
NOT -- MAY NOT BE COMPARING HIS
MONTH A PLAN TO AN EQUIVALENT
HUNDRED DOLLAR PER FAMILY MEMBER
PLAN TO GET THIS $600 THAT HE
MONTH A PLAN TO AN EQUIVALENT
HAS HEARD ABOUT AND FRANKLY
PLAN TO GET THIS $600 THAT HE
SCARES HIM A LITTLE BIT.
HAS HEARD ABOUT AND FRANKLY
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
SCARES HIM A LITTLE BIT.
$600 MAY BE A PLATINUM LEVEL
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
PLAN THAT IS POTENTIALLY MORE
$600 MAY BE A PLATINUM LEVEL
GENEROUS THAN HE IS BUYING NOW.
PLAN THAT IS POTENTIALLY MORE
IT WILL BE VERY DIFFICULT FOR
GENEROUS THAN HE IS BUYING NOW.
PEOPLE TO MAKE APPLES TO APPLES
IT WILL BE VERY DIFFICULT FOR
COMPARISON BECAUSE THE COVERAGE
PEOPLE TO MAKE APPLES TO APPLES
CHANGED THE OPTIONS HAVE CHANGED
COMPARISON BECAUSE THE COVERAGE
AND THE UNDERLYING MARKETPLACE
CHANGED THE OPTIONS HAVE CHANGED
HAS CHANGED.
AND THE UNDERLYING MARKETPLACE
>> SUSAN DENTZER, THANK YOU FOR
HAS CHANGED.
JOINING US.
>> SUSAN DENTZER, THANK YOU FOR
>> GREAT TO BE WITH YOU RAY.
JOINING US.
>> Woodruff: OUR SERIES
>> GREAT TO BE WITH YOU RAY.
CONTINUES ONLINE, WHERE YOU CAN
>> Woodruff: OUR SERIES
LEAVE YOUR QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
CONTINUES ONLINE, WHERE YOU CAN
NEW HEALTH CARE LAW.
LEAVE YOUR QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
AND WE'LL TRY TO ANSWER THOSE IN
NEW HEALTH CARE LAW.
THE COMING WEEKS.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS WERE
LOCKED IN A STANDOFF AS THEY
TRIED TO AVOID A FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN AND A DEBT-
LIMIT CRISIS.
AND POPE FRANCIS WARNED THE
ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH RUNS THE
RISK OF LOSING ITS MORAL
AUTHORITY, UNLESS IT BALANCES
RULES AGAINST ABORTION, GAY
MARRIAGE AND CONTRACEPTION WITH
THE NEED TO BE MERCIFUL.
AND A CORRECTION, LAST NIGHT, AS
PART OF OUR SERIES ON CLIMATE
CHANGE IN THE ARCTIC, WE GOT
SOMETHING WRONG.
POINT BARROW, ALASKA IS THE
NORTHERNMOST TIP OF THE UNITED
STATES, NOT OF NORTH AMERICA.
THAT DISTINCTION BELONGS TO
ELLESMERE ISLAND IN CANADA.
AND THAT'S ONLY IF YOU DON'T
COUNT GREENLAND, BUT WE'LL LEAVE
THAT GEOGRAPHY LESSON FOR
ANOTHER DAY.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, ALTHOUGH
REPORTS SHOW THAT EXISTING-HOME
SALES HAVE HIT THEIR HIGHEST
LEVELS IN SIX-AND-A-HALF YEARS,
FIRST TIME HOMEBUYERS CONTINUE
TO STRUGGLE TO GET IN ON THE
MARKET.
WE HAVE A REPORT ON MAKING
SENSE.
AND ON THE RUNDOWN, WE DISCUSS
HOW HIROSHI YAMAUCHI'S
LEADERSHIP OF NINTENDO HELPED
TURN VIDEO GAMES INTO THE
HIGHEST GROSSING ENTERTAINMENT
BUSINESS IN THE WORLD.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: FINALLY, WE REMEMBER
THE LIVES LOST AT THE WASHINGTON
NAVY YARD.
HERE, IN SILENCE, ARE THE NAMES
AND AVAILABLE PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE
12 CIVILIANS KILLED IN MONDAY'S
TRAGIC SHOOTING.
GUNMAN AARON ALEXIS ALSO DIED.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH DAVID
BROOKS AND E.J. DIONNE.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE "PBS
NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.